but we're really happy to have you all
here except for those of you standing in
the back but
the overhaul we thank you very much for
being willing to stand out there you
know who you are we're having some
sessions right now but okay now that you
built these really cool apps in five
minutes or five man months depending on
how you're scheduling things it's time
to get them out to your customers which
is now easier than ever before in Apple
history and we're very excited to have
Dirk Johnson to tell you all about it so
please give a warm welcome to dirt
thanks Eddie
just hit it high joins the last session
of the day we're all ready for it ready
to stretch you know I remember I
remember when the moment I realized how
awesome web objects was how I was about
three or so years ago I was working at
Apple in the information department
information systems and technology I was
actually on the Internet services team
and we were at that time putting
together what is now called the Apple
Store Apple online store and we're
investigating different technologies
that we could use to sort of get this
store together and we visited places
like Oracle and Netscape and there were
some good sites the technologies they
presented some bad size cost we were
tied in to their engineers for a long
period of time and then this from out of
the blue this from the side we merged
with next and I went up to my manager
and I said you know I think it next they
have this technology called what web
objects something like that and I think
it might be what we need to put this
store together so my manager being a
wise person he was said well hop in the
car drive up to Redwood City introduce
yourselves and learn web objects so I
said okay so Glenn APIs and myself
Glenn being the technical the technical
lead of our team and I being a
programmer went up to Redwood City we
literally just drove up with our Apple
badges and walked into the reception
area and said well
you know we're with Apple here's our
badge and now secrete like the same
company do you mind if we come in and
the receptionist
bless her heart said sure come on so she
opened the door for us and we walked in
and we walked around and said hi to
people very friendly and we found a
couple cubes where they weren't people
and we sat down and we started learning
web objects it was awesome coming from a
Mac development side and coming to the
object-oriented side and just learning
about sophisticated and elegant
technology was was great so Glenn and I
decided rather than biting off the Apple
store at once
well we'd start with a small project so
we decided to implement an e-commerce
site within Apple for Apple employees to
purchase their system discounts their
system yearly system discounts and we
call that the quarterly promo or the Q
promo and for those of you that have
been part of the development cycle you
know what that's like late nights stale
pizza bad jokes and we eventually got
done and so we're sitting there and I
remember this moment this and those of
you that are developers know this moment
you look at yourself you've checked off
the last feature squash the last bug and
you look at each other and you go yes
we're done we're ready now what what do
we do how can we use an AIX web server
to to serve a web objects application
how many instances do we need to run how
much RAM do we need are you sure we can
connect to that Oracle database we'll
handle the load thus was born the idea
for actually coming up with a way of
learning how to deploy web objects
application and so we're here tonight I
hope to share some of the things that
I've learned in deploying web objects
applications and I hope that's somewhat
familiar to you as well so again my name
is Dirk Johnson I'm a now a trainer at
Apple what I like to do is first of all
go over sort of an overview of the
deployment architecture and we're going
to detail about some things like
configuring and monitoring your website
obviously an important part of
deployment will mention some
troubleshooting skills and techniques
because there's no website with
it's share of problems and then in the
end just sort of bring the ideas
together I'd like to go over an example
the deployment the nature of deployment
is such that some of the subject matter
that I'll be going with are a little bit
disparate so hopefully I won't lose you
hopefully I'll have some good
transitions and there's a lot of detail
and information in this so I think it
will be useful so a very basic
deployment architecture would be
something like this hopefully it's
somewhat familiar when we talk about a
web objects deployment architecture
sometimes we refer to it as being a
three-tier architecture the first tier
being the presentation layer made up of
the browser and the HTTP server
something that's going to be serving
your content to your users the second
tier is our application layer of course
this is where the developers spend most
of their time this is your custom logic
and of course the third tier being your
database layer providing the dynamic
content to your site so it's just to
consider when you're coming up with your
deployment architecture first what
operating system we're going are you
going to use with web objects we support
of course Mac OS 10 server and D for
Windows 2000 Solaris and hp-ux and of
course with our new announcement Mac OS
10 and Linux with web objects 5 for Java
so lots of choices as far as hardware
not you know what operating system
you're going to use how are you going to
set up your hardware processor speed is
important especially if you're if you're
going to have a lot of traffic on your
site processor count for multiprocessor
systems the amount of RAM your disk
subsystem and redundancy redundant power
supplies for example important things to
check off your list to make sure you've
considered your environments your
network speed your network security
network security is pretty obvious
making sure that people can't get in
through the network but sometimes we
forget physical security I recall
hearing within the last year or so a
company was really good and making sure
people couldn't hack into their database
to get the credit cards so someone
decided to go around walk in the door
and pick up the physical box and walk
out with it
so it's important to not let that happen
and we we learned that as well at Apple
though that didn't happen to us
temperature control and even moisture
control is important and of course UPS
for when the power goes out and make
sure and test the batteries under that
condition so they last long enough for
you that we didn't do that
deployment licenses so there's three
deployment licenses all the way from
work group the desktop the high-end and
they each have various capabilities is
this right no you're right it's not it's
different how is it difference $6.99
$6.99 you get the whole ball of wax the
whole eye and deployment pennies on the
dollar multi processor multiple instant
no volume limit and if you order within
the next thirty minutes we'll throw in a
pair of Ginsu knives all right we've got
that driven home $6.99 have you seen our
website this morning
it's got $6.99 right on there all right
so review the deployment architecture
let's talk about the communication that
takes place between the application
layer and the database layer we do this
through something called a database
adapter so depending on what platform
you've chosen there is a limitation on
what databases we connect to so again
for example OS 10 has Oracle Solaris as
well all the way down the column you can
see oracle sybase Informix ODBC but the
high point is again web objects v for
java so you can see across all platforms
well we're supported so it's again an
awesome thing so you want to consider
your database adapter so now let's talk
about the interaction between your
presentation layer in your application
layer we use something called the web
objects adapter well web objects adapter
works with the HTTP server with web
objects we supply three specific api
adapters or or HTTP adapters apache and
Safie or whi which is netscape i zappy
which is Microsoft and then of course we
support the CGI
interface with web servers let's talk
about that a little bit more first of
all the advantage of the CGI adapter is
that it works everywhere there's
absolutely no place you really can't use
it with a web server as a matter of fact
we did with the quarterly promo deploy
with an AIX web server we recompile the
CGI adapter and it worked the
disadvantage with it is that it is
slower than it's what we call the API
adapter just slower than the API
adapters because every request forces it
to spawn a new process so that's going
to be slow it has overhead additionally
it's not allowed to use the load
balancing algorithms that we have built
into the adapt to the API adapters so
contrarily the API adapters then do have
load balancing which is great for
performance the API adapters also
operate within the same process as the
HTTP server so you've got less overhead
there and again we have Netscape
Microsoft and Apache support and of
course the C source code is supplied for
all adapters so you're able to modify
their behavior or recompile them for
different platforms for the aggressive
so let's talk a little bit more about
this interaction the adapter with our
web objects applications the browser
represents of course our user in a
request coming in I didn't put the HTTP
server there please just assume the
request goes to the HTTP server and then
gets handed off to the adapter so our
user submits a request the adapter looks
at the URL that's submitted with the
request and as it looks at the URL it
looks at what the application name is
and what instance of that application
that needs to receive that request
now the adapter holds configuration
information including what instances are
running and what hosts they're running
on so the adapter is an cross reference
that URL with its configuration
information and then it will identify
the instance and for the request on to
that instance so that's sort of a
summary of the way that request works
with the adapter now what I like to
focus on with this slide is really that
configuration information because that's
really the entryway
into your application architecture there
so this configuration information first
of all the configuration information
that the adapter holds is for three
separate sets of information first its
own configuration information for
example what load balancing mechanism is
you want it to use second has a list of
all available applications and they're
in the configuration at the application
level and then thirdly you have the
application instances and what hosts
they're running on and for example their
configuration information like port
number and instance number the format of
all this information is XML but it does
still support the old format for those
who are used to the pre web objects--
4-5 format the P list and this
configuration information that the a the
web web objects adapter has is obtained
usually via a URL and you configure that
information in the web server
configuration file so it's in the web
service configuration file that you
configure your web objects adapter so
let's talk a little bit more about this
URL that I referred to that the adapter
uses to gather its configuration
information first of all there are three
ways or mechanisms that your adapter can
actually get at configuration
information first of all the first
mechanism is the typical flat file the
first URL that you see there is an
example of referencing a local flat file
and the second is having a web server
deon serving up the configuration
information so that's a remote flat file
that's pretty straightforward the second
way is you can provide an actual hosts
list for the adapter it will actually
contact these hosts for configuration
information there's something I need to
introduce here and that's a process that
we called low task D this is new with
web objects 4 5 it is a process that
runs on every one of your application
hosts and one of its roles is to supply
configuration information for the
adapter that is relevant for that
particular host that it resides on so in
this case we have a host list
referencing to hosts Helen and Telesto
and Helen and the low testy process is
listening on port 1085 so what this
means is that the web objects adapter is
going to go and connect to Helen on port
1085 which will be the low caste process
and that will test the process will
return its XML information its
configuration information for that box
in this case the adapter will combine
the configuration information from two
protests key processes the third
mechanism is multicast and we'll get
into that in a minute
I want to deal with that in more detail
now this configuration information that
the adapter caches can become stale so
by default the adapter refreshes that
configuration information every 10
seconds let's talk a little bit more
about this low caste process of probably
spread your curiosity then as I
mentioned it runs on every web objects
application server it's very important
it started and restarted for robustness
by a demon called low service that's on
every platform and it supplies the
adapter one of its roles is to supply
the adapter again with this
configuration data again on port 1085 is
where it by default listens and
communicates that information now it's
real primary role not only is to help
the adapter and get its configuration
information but it's also its primary
role is to monitor cycle and restart
your configured instances for those that
are familiar with web objects previous
two four five this was really the role
of monitor in the monitor proxy monitor
was responsible for actually configuring
the instances and making sure that they
stayed up if they went down this role
has now been moved over to the low testy
process and again the low testy process
is local to that particular host
monitors still exist but it's merely
just an interface to low caste an
interesting note about the wou caste
processes even though let's say that you
have your wou testing process you've got
any configured various apps to run and
communicate with foe testy testy can
still serve instances of your
application that you have not configured
with monitor when your applications
start up they send what's call
the life beats to monitor to register
with low testy I'm sorry sends a live
b2o testy to register with it so that
what st can also service those instances
that say you start manually from the
command line so it's not necessary to
configure it with monitor in order to
for well test you to service your
instances let's make that a little
clearer here here we have two hosts
Europa and Callisto pay attention to
those names those hosts application
hosts are running will task be again on
port 1085 you have your web objects
adapter sitting there you start up let's
say four instances two on each they send
their life beat to low teske letting low
test you know hey I'm ready to go in
your web server configuration file
you've configured your web objects
adapter with a host list where it will
look for its configuration information
in this case you're open Callisto again
and it will then communicate at every
ten seconds with low-caste import 1085
and build its configuration information
okay so now let's talk about this multi
casting it's similar to the hosts list
but a little more flexible as a matter
of fact let's talk about the flexibility
first of this host list what's the
advantage of the host list let's say
over the flat file well the flat file
doesn't incur the traffic on the on the
network the traffic slight really anyway
the advantage to the host list is let's
say that you want to increase the
performance of your website let's say
it's getting bogged down a bit and your
honor and you want to add another
instance let's say to Europa and
Callisto another instance of your
application but when those instances
start up the register with low task D
via the live feed and guess what web
objects adapter will refresh its
information every ten seconds on the
next refresh the row testy process will
alert the adapter to the other processes
that you've started so without you
having to do anything with the web
objects adapter you've actually scaled
your site's seamlessly so that's one of
the advantage of the host list now let's
talk about multi casting
so multi casting is actually a network
protocol it uses an IP address from the
administrative leaf scope domain web
objects has used this particular IP
address that you see up here - 39 128 14
- no need to memorize it it's written
down I can't memorize those um
administrative leave scope domain what
does that mean it's an IP in the range
of IPs that are for internal use to a
private network and again it broadcasts
on port 1085 when the load testing
processes start up they register to
receive a multicast
on that particular port at that
particular IP by default a multicast is
limited to the particular subnet on
which it is on which it resides on which
it is broadcast but if you configure
your router to pass on multicast packets
you can actually use this multicast or
each other subnet so it's an important
point so vote SB I'm sorry so the
adapter then if it's set up to use the
multicast well then broadcast this
multicast out on the network and all
load test is because they register to
listen for this multicast will then
register themselves with your web
objects adapter what this allows you to
the adapter to do is build a dynamic
host list now this broadcast this
multicast is sent out by the web object
adapter every 100 seconds so it rebuilds
that dynamic host list every 100 seconds
so the advantage of that is is in the
previous example our host list if we
added a new instance it was
automatically detected by the adapter
however what if we add a new host
okay the adapter is not going to know
about the new host because we already
have a static host list so the advantage
of the multicast then allows us to add
an entirely new box to our application
layer and the adapter will automatically
see that within a hundred seconds or
less
all right so they'll get a little
graphical representation of this again
we'll use your open callisto our caste
processes and in the web server
configuration file we've configured our
web objects adapter to use the multicast
way of configuring it of getting its
configuration information start our
instances they register with what test
eve with life beat we send out the
multicast and dynamically build our
hosts list and then based on that host
list every 10 seconds will query the
hosts on that host list for the
configuration information alright so
let's see sort of review we know what
our deployment architecture is or three
layers presentation application database
we talked about the database adapter and
the web objects adapter well let's say
that you get your site set up and you go
to hit your website for the first time
you're configured let's say your adapter
to use the multicast that instance is
running and you go to hit your website
and things just don't work let's say
that the application isn't found
what kind of troubleshooting can you do
well there's a couple things we can do
first of all we can actually query the
web objects adapter to see what
configuration information it has and
it'll present it to us in a very
readable fashion right in our web
browser so here you can see our HTTP
server is called
over on the path to the web objects
adapter cgi-bin slash web objects we're
actually sending the X Y Z Z Y command
to the adapter how many of your
adventure fans anybody recognize that X
Y Z Z Y alright good for you guys sort
of dates some of the web objects
programmers doesn't it all right so you
can query it and it'll return detailed
configuration information and of course
this can be password protected your web
servers public you wouldn't want people
sort of seeing what your configuration
setup is so we make sure and password
protect that secondarily you can also
turn on adapter logging if you want to
see the logging this was this was there
and in pre web objects for five simply
create a file named log web objects in
the temp directory restart your adapter
your HTTP server
and then your adapter will start with
logging out to a web objects log file in
the same directory make sure and turn
that off when you're in deployment
forgot to do that for cue promo learn
the hard way on that I'm so glad I
didn't start with the story all right
you can drastically reduce your
performance all right
so let's talk about this monitor let's
sort of complete the picture we know
what what caste does it's really the
workhorse now as far as keeping your
side up communicating with your web
objects adapter let's talk about monitor
well it's a web objects application it
always has been again it's the interface
to a testy monitor will allow you to
manage the same instance of monitor will
allow you to manage multiple hosts which
means you don't need a version of
monitor running on every host you can
manage your whole website and it also
allows you this is where you will
configure your web objects adapter and
tell it what for example again what type
of load balancing to use and this is
also password protected all right so I'd
like to introduce Melissa Turner which
is a web objects engineer and the web
objects team we'd like to demo monitor
for you and show the interaction again
between the adapter audacity and monitor
am i yes I'm connected that was kind of
important
so basically Dirk has talked about all
the various components and I'm sort of
going to show you how they can be used
in a deployment situation what I have
running right here now is an instance of
the monitor application it's actually
running on a box that we have hiding
behind stage and what I'm going to do is
well add a host I've timed out how many
of you have seen that before how many of
you saw Steve demo at Macworld where you
saw that a whole bunch
so I've added the host that as you can
see the solaris box running backstage we
thought we'd show you that yes laris
actually works because we know that a
lot of people actually deploy on Solaris
what I'm going to do now is add an
application and we're going to hope I
don't have typos in it
this is basically the defaults that will
be used whenever you create a new
instance in this application we have a
path wizards that you can on the host
that you want to create the application
on navigate down through the directory
structure to actually find that
application it saves you having to
memorize where things are on various
machines
[Applause]
and this is a difference that some of
you will notice between web objects for
OU and web objects for five now you have
to actually navigate down into the da
and select the executable instead of
simply selecting the dot Walla
one of the advantages to that is that
you can actually set up a script and
navigate down to an executable script
that can set up an environment and then
launch your application you like us you
really like us okay so I set up my
defaults for the incidents so I'm going
to go off and add an instance leap I
knew I forgot something and at this
point I want to show you we talked about
X Y Z Z Y I want to show you what the
adapter sees this is the X Y Z Z Y
command that you can use to get
configure it to sort of view the
configuration information at the adapter
and if i refresh it you'll see that
right now the only thing the adapter
knows about is the instance of monitor
that's running backstage but if I go
over here and start the application give
it a few seconds to register with
low-caste you'll see that the
application is running and when I go
back to X Y Z Z Y and refresh there's my
application and just to prove that it
actually is a real application
you'll notice that I am going act I'm
actually going through the web server
I'm not just hitting it through Direct
Connect the thing can be a yes I'm an
engineer oh they're for demos must
confuse me
look correct voila we have our
application you'll notice that we're
serving QuickTime it's one of the
examples that's included with all of
these various web object stuff it's just
a little Store application that lets you
go buy things my bottom a lot of
PowerBook and okay so you've got your
application up it's being served and
suddenly people are you know they've
heard about your site they think it's
wonderful they want to come visit it and
you decide that you really need to add
another instance or several more
instances of your application so you can
dynamically just add another host
add another instance
well
eg
and for some reason it's not wanting to
start oh if it did want to start what
I'd show you is that well I'd go back
over to X Y Z Z Y on the adapter and it
would run but for some reason it's not
going to so try one more time try one
more time the demo gods have spoken and
well because of that you won't be able
to see the new app coming up and I have
no idea what happens but we do this so
that other people have problems feel
okay about their demos too okay
and that's all I really had to show
great Thank You Melissa excellent all
right so we talked about your deployment
architecture
whoa testing the adapters let's see what
else can we talk about you know how to
manage your site start new instances we
can schedule downtime and uptime between
your instances with monitor and
low-caste something else I'd like to
jump to now sort of do a shift is let's
focus on the application itself your
application as you're going through the
development cycle it's probably going to
behave a little differently than you
want it to during the deployment cycle
for example well here let me get here
first all right
there's this notion of public and
private resources so while you're going
through the development cycle you're
really usually launching on the same
system you're developing on and all your
resources are sort of mingled together
well when you go and deploy you've got
this HTTP server that needs to be seen
by everybody on the Internet and I'll
say on a static site your pages your
HTML pages reside on your HTTP server
because they're publicly accessible to
the people need to get to it your images
are on your HTTP server your sounds etc
anything you might have well your
application because you have this
dynamic application there's some
resources there that we don't want to be
accessible to the public for example
your executable you don't want someone
taking that how about your components or
your pages their definitions how about
the model file
Mike showed you that the model file
contains your database information
including name and password so you
definitely don't want that going out and
sitting on your HTTP server so again
there's this notion of public resources
and private resources and you want to
keep those separate with the web objects
application when you get ready for
deployment we do something that we term
a split install so you want to make sure
and do that as a matter of course when
we did the the cue promo
it was my habit to just compile the
application copy the whole dot wallet
folder the folder with everything in it
and just copy it over to the document
root of the HTTP servers so my images
and stuff would get there well they got
there but what everything else so that
was a bad practice that I had to get
curbed quite severely so you want to
make sure and do that split install and
keep those resources separate yes
back up we have roses on we if you're
this is sort of in the notion of
troubleshooting if for some reason you
you know if you do your install you have
your app running you're trying to hit it
through the adapter and your images
aren't loading probably means that
you've forgotten to copy your public
resources over to your web server we got
actually caught by that yesterday when
we were trying to get our demo set up
our QuickTime files weren't coming over
and that's a really good place to look
if you're trying to you know
troubleshoot problems schools are
showing a matter how often you do it you
always make mistakes thanks Melissa
all right so application configuration
so the behavior of your application
during development should not
necessarily be the same in production
for example when you launch an
application in your development
environment it usually tries to open up
the browser automatically for you well
you wouldn't want that behavior and
deployment for example so we provided
away with web objects about three
different ways of configuring the
behavior of your application so the
first is the defaults database the
defaults database is installed when you
install web objects it's a database that
allows you to store values for command
line arguments on an application by
application basis so when you launch say
the monitor or you launch your virtual
store light application it will look in
this defaults database under its own
name pull out the command line arguments
that you have set and add them to the
launching of the application there's
also an area in the default database
called NS global domain which allows you
to have settings across multiple
applications so any settings in the NS
global domain will be applied to any
application launching on that particular
application host secondarily the actual
command-line arguments you can go ahead
and launch your application with certain
command-line arguments these
command-line arguments will override any
settings that are duplicated in the
defaults database so that's the
advantage of using the command-line
argument right on the command line is
that you can override any settings that
you have sitting in your defaults
database and finally is the programmer
you have ultimate power if you want to
hard-code something and make sure that
it absolutely
we behaves a certain way you don't want
anybody anybody changing the behavior
you can of course set it in code which
would have been override anything that's
presented on the command line or in the
default database very important for
deployment all right so now let's talk
about bottlenecks you've gotten your
application together you've got it ready
for deployments and let's say that
actually you put it in what I would call
a staging area you have your development
area your staging out area which is as
identical as possible to your deployment
area and you want to do some stress
testing on your application and you
start running through your application
and trying to simulate that load that
you anticipate for deployment and you
find that it's not performing the way
that you need it to these are what we
call bottlenecks bottleneck stick
performance and these are the very
various areas that you would want to
investigate where that performance
bottleneck might be so first is the
application of course in your code maybe
your subroutine that gets called with
every request response is not performing
well and you need to optimize that how
about database queries going to the
database aren't optimized well
especially if you haven't done table
indexing or things like that
how about your CPU let's say that the
traffic that you put on a single host is
it's way too much for that processor you
need to add a second processor offload
it to a second box
how about virtual memory or RAM when you
launch your application it's going to
try and load itself into Ram as you
fetch objects from the database it's
going to try and keep that in RAM well
if you don't have enough of it it's
going to start swapping to the database
using virtual memory and that's swapping
severely degrade your performance so you
don't want that to happen how about the
performance of the network your
applications running fine your database
is fine but the communication between
the two is severely strained so you need
to increase your network bandwidth so
these are areas that you want to focus
on and looking for the problems the
application in the database will be
bottlenecks will be talked to in great
detail and the optimizing your
application session session for 10
so that's Thursday I think so you want
to look at that the other three areas
I'll address brief
and really the hard part about look at
this situation this performance problem
isn't actually identifying with
confidence where the problem is the
solution is usually more intuitive so
I'd like to just talk about a few
utilities that you could use to address
these separate bottlenecks so on the
UNIX platform Solaris Mac OS 10 Linux
for example for looking at your CPU and
how its performing using PS are tough
like top especially because it's a
dynamic update you can actually have the
column sorting so you can see what your
what percentage of the processor you're
using at any one point in time
uptime tells you and in three separate
numbers how what percentage what the
ratio of the processes that your
processor is using over five ten and
fifteen seconds that's also very useful
to get just a quick snapshot of how your
processors doing
how about monitoring your vm usage
you're swapping it goes on well--there's
vmstat a vm underscores that depending
on what UNIX platform you're on to help
look in great detail how the paging is
doing and where the where the large
amounts of paging is going on you can
also use again PS and top because it
also tells you how much real RAM and
have a virtual memory you're utilizing
for a particular process your network
packet sniffers there's a lot of them
out there Solaris comes with I think
it's called snoop Mac OS 10 server comes
with TCP dump packet sniffers are very
useful looking at the packets going
across your network measuring how large
they are and looking at the bandwidth
that your network has to see if you can
either eliminate the traffic on your
network or increase the bandwidth of
your network
there's also net step on NT in Windows
2000 they have more GUI oriented tools
which are very good task manager and
performance monitor to look at both your
CPU and your RAM usage the network on
network monitor comes with NP server
it's a very useful tool and they have
some great filters that help you sniff
the lines and and isolate different
types of packets and different
destination packets so it's very useful
all right so we've talked about a lot of
things sort of been over the map here
and there what I'd like to do is sort of
try to bring everything we talked about
together in a scenario I'll sort of talk
through how I might consider a sample
deployment and what what the thought
process is that I might go through so
here's my set up start with I have a few
customers my sights is deployed but
maybe it's not very popular at the
moment so that's what the red circles
are the my browsers to my site here I
have an HTTP server called Oberon and of
course it's utilizing the API adapter
for performance and efficiency I have
one host called Europa running two
instances of my applications now no
matter what no matter even if one
instance could really handle the traffic
that I anticipate on my website I still
want to run two instances for purposes
of redundancy if I'm running one
instance and it goes down my site goes
down if I'm running to my site may slow
down but it doesn't go down if one goes
down so that's that's why I would have
at least two on my site and then of
course full boast is my database you
always have in that database all right
so let's say then well I'm very
concerned about my users being able to
access directly Europa or access
directly my database you notice there
was nothing there previously probably
did a little too soon whoops you don't
want to hit that button okay so I'm a
bit concerned about the access that my
users have directly to Europa actually
they could even talk to low-caste
directly couldn't they in this case and
get the XML configuration information so
that's not a good thing so what I might
want to do is put a firewall between my
users and my actual deployment
architecture here my deployment site now
with my firewall I would only want to
allow in connections to Oberon on port
80 port 80 being the default port for
HTTP servers and that way even if the
users try to connect to Europa the
packets won't go through the firewall so
that's a very secure setup so the first
thing I would be concerned about is
implementing a firewall between your
users
and your website secure that web now
let's say that our site becomes more
popular and we get more users well let's
say I use an old AIX box on the back of
the room and the more users put my HTTP
server under load and I'm going to have
to add a second HTTP server well the
advantage of the web objects
architecture the way that it's
modularized to these three tiers is that
you can scale the tiers individually
very flexible so what I'm going to do is
I'm going to add a second HTTP server
I'm going to call it Oberon - and notice
that it's also using the API adapter of
course I'm gonna have to rename the
first one to Oberon one because well it
just sort of syncs up better now wait a
minute
well there's a problem here the firewall
is only allowing packets into Oberon on
port 80 I suppose what I could do is
change it to allowing packets on over on
one and over on to through port 80 but
then the user would have to choose which
one to hit and then it really wouldn't
be scaling my slide very well and a very
intuitive fashion for the customer so
I'm going to introduce to something
called round robin well that was fun
let's try that again round robin DNS get
it all right round robin DNS and rather
round robin DNS server is going to sit
there and listen for packets for Oberon
on port 80 and then it's going to take
care of managing it managing it across
your HTTP servers okay great let's see
what's next
alright we get more servers we're more
popular things are going great and now
your rope is having a hard time handling
the traffic let's say so that means we
can scale our applications here and
we're going to add kalisto and two more
instances of course on callisto for the
same reason that I spoke of previously
if I was having at least two instances
per host but you know I would say
something here and that is if you can
afford it not only would I have two
instances on every host at least I would
always have at least two hosts serving
in my application layer because just
like if an instance goes down my host
site doesn't go down with the second
instance what if the whole box goes down
you always want that redundancy that
second server there handling the site
even though it's going to be at a slower
pace until you can get that second box
back up so really if you can afford it I
would always have two of those there all
right let's see we have redundancy on
the HTTP server redundancy on the
application tier let's see what else
database let's consider the database
well if we really want our site to be
very robust we're going to need to come
up with a solution for if the database
goes down what we can do
firewall sorry all right actually that's
the wrong order let's see if we all
right pretend the firewall then come up
all right so we have what we want to do
is have a second database come in and
we'll call it demos in this case so
Phobos and Deimos Deimos is going to be
a mirror of Phobos every insert update
delete that occurs in Phobos is going to
occur in Deimos so that they're
identical at all times and that way if
Phobos goes down you can now write your
applications with web objects for five
to seamlessly connect to Deimos and
continue processing while your suicide
mint is page to look into why Phobos
went down get Phobos back up get them
back and sync and then you're back in
business again so it's a very flexible
scalable architecture across the three
tiers
now the firewall that sort of popped up
in the middle not every site has it but
I like to separate with a firewall my
public resources for my private
resources again it just makes things
extra secure you recall you know we
don't want people walking away with our
database servers and we don't want
people being able to hack into them as
well so what I might do is add a second
firewall between my excuse me my HTTP
servers my application servers and only
let packets through to my application
servers that way if some way someone's
able to tunnel in through port 80 and
get access or control of Oberon Oberon
cannot connect under any circumstance to
Phobos with that firewall there so again
an additional barrier all right so that
type of setup is generally called a
border zone where you separate your
public resources from your private
resources physically with a firewall of
course separating an inch of private
network and of course your public access
internet or intranet
all right so that's a sample deployment
that's pretty much it but you know I
realize there's still really one
question that I have an answer and that
is the now what how many instances do I
run how do I know how much ram what am i
go what should my architecture be I
think it's a big question and about a
year ago I started asking myself how I
could figure it out is there some magic
formula that we could come up with that
would tell us how many instances to
start with and by golly there's
absolutely no way to do it but I think
that's true I think we came close though
let's give it a try it's all theoretical
but we created the deployment calculator
this is the first public rollout of the
deployment calculator we're going to ask
Melissa to show it to us all right
Melissa and yeah this isn't actually a
Mac box where you know proving that we
work on all systems actually I'm going
to talk a little bit more about
troubleshooting stuff as you can when
you start an application if you start it
from a shell and start it with the
commands or the command line parameter
whoa debugging enabled it'll print out
all kinds of stuff to that shell so if
you're trying to debug problems in your
application or in your configuration
this can be helpful but we've got a
deployment calculator and what we're
going to try and calculate is how many
instances of our application we need
running and there's a few this is
courtesy of dark and there's a few
things we've determined they're kind of
sort of they're the status
the measurements that are important
these are the things that really sort of
influence how many how many instances of
your application you run things like
loop time which is how much times take
your application to run through the
critical path of the incoming requests
max wait time is sort of how long do we
want our users to have to wait how long
do we think our users will be willing to
wait for to receive a page back how many
transactions is my site likely to be
receiving per day and sort of on the
more web object side how long does it
take for my sessions to time out how big
is my application when it has one
session that sort of gone through that
what we have deemed the sort of standard
path through our site how big is it when
ten sessions have gone through how long
our users likely to spend on any given
page and how many pages are they likely
to hit during a visit and now why don't
we say that we think it's going to take
about a second for our application to
run through the critical loop and we
think yeah we'll make our users wait for
seconds and I don't know half a million
transactions a day sounds now reasonable
for you know brand-new site doesn't it
think positive and we'll set you know 30
minute timeout we think people be around
for a while initialized with one session
is at 22 megabytes with ten sessions at
30 megabytes and we think people will
take about 20 seconds to look at each
page to read over the stuff and decide
what they want to do from here they'll
probably hit that are now 15 pages per
visit we scroll down to the bottom hit
the calculate button and it says oh
there's your result because you probably
want six instances running
there's more stuff down here this is
sort of this is the how many
transactions will how many requests will
be queued okay in a typical cycle to not
exceed the maximum wait time this is you
know your transactions per day divided
up into well hours minutes seconds your
ideal instance count as six as we said
this is some round calculations each
session is going to take about eighty
Meg your application
horny corn eight Meg that's a large
session you're doing something wrong
there you've got your entire database in
there now the application itself takes
about twenty 1.2 Meg session the average
session length looks like it's going to
be but little over three hundred seconds
you'll deal with you know sessions per
hour this is yeah I can I'm just trying
to translate it into English a little
over without 1300 sessions per hour and
you'll have it on average 18 or 819
sessions active at any given time which
means you'll have a 778 Meg's worth of
application at any given time over in
this list we sort of show you what the
maximum this configuration can handle is
likely to be a maximum number of
transactions per day transactions per
hour
now what maximum session length is and
when we calculate these numbers it's
done on a bell curve where we ask or
it's done by averaging out transactions
over a day but we all know that there's
likely to the transactions are actually
likely to distribute it on a bell curve
you know California wakes up and the
internet slows down type of thing so
what you want to do is you want to make
sure that your site these numbers here
are over the top of your bell curve so
that whatever configuration you've got
the maximum number of things you can
handle according to this transaction is
at least what listed in this last column
here memory
what about the memory and the memory so
that so that's your yellow column is
your max transactions and so your memory
that's the maximum amount of memory that
you'd be using if you had the maximum
number of transactions so I would always
run enough instances so that my it's
called my spike transactions per day are
higher than your top the top of your
highest bell curve and I would always
run my memory so I have enough memory
across my whole website and this is all
logical and logical distribution so that
I'm so I would set up with a minimum on
this case of 3 gigabytes of RAM on my
website with 6 instances as long as my
bell curve stay below two million hits
per day so what do you think okay why
don't you click on the transaction per
day hyperlink so there's a glossary of
all these terms how I calculated it how
we calculated it and it walks you
through how to use it and what each of
the terms mean I provide the formula at
the bottom the source code is there so
you can modify your own formula it's all
theoretical please use it and give me
feedback but we can modify it and it's
on your CD in your bag your web objects
double CD so it's right there the
project and everything so have at it let
me know thank you all right thank you
Melissa
oh let's see well I was exciting public
took a really it's been like about a
year working on that so again it's in
your seat it's in your bag and you can
also download it from Enterprise at
Apple comm at WWDC mm if you don't get
it there all right so roadmap so where
do we go from here we've covered a lot
of material there's a lot more for
deployment web objects optimization
Thursday at 9:00 a.m.
maximizing performance and also
performance metrics I think is very
political to deployment because you got
to tell where your performance
bottlenecks are so you might want to
make sure and go there for more
information
you've seen these URLs before this
information before in the previous
slides don't forget about the BLF
tomorrow night put a contact please send
all deployment calculator inform a
to vote feedback but there's also in the
introduction portion of the deployment
calculator there's information where to
Ford and feedback on that as well but
you can Ford it there
and finally QA but wait I get to ask the
first question
you can put the lights up what was the
relationship between all names of the
hosts in this presentation
Deimos Phobos Kate yes Greek mythology
very good I'll accept that but there are
moons of the solar system